"pulling..." step failing on Windows, causing thousands of builds
=================================================================

Date: 2019-10-09T04:49:36Z

What
----

[r374139](http://reviews.llvm.org/rL374139) added two binary files, it
made the "pulling..." stage fail like so:

    INFO:2019-10-09T04:49:36Z:root:pulling...
    From https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project
     * branch                    master     -> FETCH_HEAD
       0746aafd897..4ac388f7cac  master     -> origin/master
    Your branch is behind 'origin/master' by 1 commit, and can be fast-forwarded.
      (use "git pull" to update your local branch)
    Switched to branch 'master'
    error: unable to stat just-written file llvm/test/tools/dsymutil/Inputs/private/tmp/common/com1.o: No such file or directory
    error: unable to create file llvm/test/tools/dsymutil/Inputs/private/tmp/common/com2.o: No such file or directory
    Checking out files:  80% (4/5)   
    Checking out files: 100% (5/5)   
    Checking out files: 100% (5/5), done.
    Updating 0746aafd897..4ac388f7cac
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "syncbot.py", line 132, in <module>
        sys.exit(main())
      File "syncbot.py", line 128, in main
        run()
      File "syncbot.py", line 66, in run
        check_git(['merge', '--ff-only', 'origin/master'])
      File "syncbot.py", line 37, in check_git
        return subprocess.check_call(['git'] + args)
      File "C:\python_27_amd64\files\lib\subprocess.py", line 190, in check_call
        raise CalledProcessError(retcode, cmd)
    subprocess.CalledProcessError: Command '['git', 'merge', '--ff-only', 'origin/master']' returned non-zero exit status 1

From here on, every "pulling..." failed with

    From https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project
     * branch                    master     -> FETCH_HEAD
    Your branch is behind 'origin/master' by 1 commit, and can be fast-forwarded.
      (use "git pull" to update your local branch)
    Already on 'master'
    Updating 0746aafd897..4ac388f7cac
    error: The following untracked working tree files would be overwritten by merge:
            llvm/test/tools/dsymutil/Inputs/private/tmp/common/com
            llvm/test/tools/dsymutil/X86/common-sym-multi.test
    Please move or remove them before you merge.
    Aborting
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "syncbot.py", line 132, in <module>
        sys.exit(main())
      File "syncbot.py", line 128, in main
        run()
      File "syncbot.py", line 66, in run
        check_git(['merge', '--ff-only', 'origin/master'])
      File "syncbot.py", line 37, in check_git
        return subprocess.check_call(['git'] + args)
      File "C:\python_27_amd64\files\lib\subprocess.py", line 190, in check_call
        raise CalledProcessError(retcode, cmd)
    subprocess.CalledProcessError: Command '['git', 'merge', '--ff-only', 'origin/master']' returned non-zero exit status 1

[r374144](http://reviews.llvm.org/rL374144) reverted that change again 4 hours
later.

After this, things recovered.

However, since the error happened during syncing, `syncbot.py`'s checkpointing
thought that there were new commits all the time and cycled through builds
as fast as it could. On Windows, that's luckily not very fast, but the builder
still recorded 2523 builds (compared to 92 existing legit builds) in the
4h15min things were broken.

Also, I happened to check the state of things while the first good build
was running, and since it takes 50 minutes on Win and there's no indication of
an ongoing build and there were 2523 failing builds, I didn't realize that
things were already fixed.

Why
===

r374139 added a file called `con`, which is a reserved name on Windows.

`syncbot.py`s compares the rev on the branches `master` and `origin/master` to
check if new commits are present. If the two branches are different, it runs
`git checkout -f master && git merge --ff-only origin/master` to update
the local `master` branch (and then builds).

Since the `git merge` itself was failing, `master` and `origin/master` never
got equal until the fix landed.

Now what
========

Ideas for merge issue:

1. In `syncbot.sh`, if a build takes less than 15 seconds, chances are something
   went wrong. Sleep for 5 min or so? With this, the builder would still have
   spammed ~50 builds, which is still way too many, but better than 2500.

1. Make `syncbot.py` check if `git merge` fails and if so, sleep there.

1. Make `syncbot.py` not use git state for checkpointing. Write last seen rev
   on `origin/master` to a state file somewhere, and compare `origin/master`
   to the state on next run, instead of comparing to `master`. This way,
   at most one build per upstream rev is guaranteed, even if `git merge` fails.

Ideas for pending build issue:

1. Maybe sync logs after every completed build step instead of just after every
   build?

1. Figure out why the Windows bot is so slow. If it's 10x faster, this is less
   of an issue.
