
Wrong crontab entry, causing over 40000 corrupted build logs
============================================================

Date: 2020-08-20T09:02:00Z

What
----

I had put this in the crontab of the linux builder:

    @reboot tmux new-session -d -c src/llvm-project 'bash --init-file ../hack/llvmgnsyncbot/syncbot.sh'

The plan was to auto-start syncbot after a forced reboot. However, this instead
caused `syncbot.sh` to immediately die with
`./syncbot.py: No such file or directory`. This only took fractions of a second,
and by the time I noticed (16 hours after the reboot), over 40000 bad build logs
were generated.

Since they didn't contain any of the expected log files, they made the html
generation script crash, which is how I ultimately noticed.


Why
===

The crontab entry doesn't work, and there's no easy way to test crontab entries
as far as I know.


Now what
========

I removed the crontab entry for now. I should run it manually before adding it
next time and figure out what exactly went wrong.


Manual cleanup
==============

To clean up, I signed in to the linux box, killed the bad tmux process,
used `who -b` to find the last boot time, and the deleted all build logs that
were newer than that:

    cd src/llvm-project/
    rm buildlogs/{26040..65083}.txt
    rm buildlogs/{26040..65083}.meta.json

I edited buildlog.state to make the next build start at 26040:

    echo 26040 > syncbot.state

Then I ssh'd into the web server and removed them there too, together with
the corresponding cache entries:

    rm buildlog/linux/{26040..65083}.txt
    rm buildlog/linux/{26040..65083}.meta.json
    rm buildlog_cache/linux/{26040..65083}.json

Then I manually checked that the html generation now works:

    hack/llvmgnsyncbot.py buildlogs html

Sadly, I had manually started llvmgnsyncbot.py once before, and so the local
git state wasn't as behind as it should have been. I tried to fix this by
running

    git update-ref refs/remotes/origin/master 31adc28d24b 

but that didn't reset enough state. Now build 26040 claims that it only contains
2 commits, which isn't correct. Oh well.
